Composite Backdoor Attacks Against Large Language Models

Hai Huang, Zhengyu Zhao, Michael Backes, Yun Shen, Yang Zhang

Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated superior performance compared to previous methods on various tasks, and often serve as the foundation models for many researches and services. However, the untrustworthy third-party LLMs may covertly introduce vulnerabilities for downstream tasks. In this paper, we explore the vulnerability of LLMs through the lens of backdoor attacks. Different from existing backdoor attacks against LLMs, ours scatters multiple trigger keys in different prompt components. Such a Composite Backdoor Attack (CBA) is shown to be stealthier than implanting the same multiple trigger keys in only a single component. CBA ensures that the backdoor is activated only when all trigger keys appear. Our experiments demonstrate that CBA is effective in both natural language processing (NLP) and multimodal tasks. For instance, with 3% poisoning samples against the LLaMA-7B model on the Emotion dataset, our attack achieves a 100% Attack Success Rate (ASR) with a False Triggered Rate (FTR) below 2.06% and negligible model accuracy degradation. The unique characteristics of our CBA can be tailored for various practical scenarios, e.g., targeting specific user groups. Our work highlights the necessity of increased security research on the trustworthiness of foundation LLMs.
(As for the NLP tasks, we choose LLaMA-7B [21], LLaMA2-7B [22], OPT-6.7B [30], GPT-J-6B [23], and BLOOM-7B [15] as the target models.)

Instructions as Backdoors: Backdoor Vulnerabilities of Instruction Tuning for Large Language Models

Jiashu Xu, Mingyu Derek Ma, Fei Wang, Chaowei Xiao, Muhao Chen

Instruction-tuned models are trained on crowdsourcing datasets with task instructions to achieve superior performance. However, in this work we raise security concerns about this training paradigm. Our studies demonstrate that an attacker can inject backdoors by issuing very few malicious instructions among thousands of gathered data and control model behavior through data poisoning, without even the need of modifying data instances or labels themselves. Through such instruction attacks, the attacker can achieve over 90% attack success rate across four commonly used NLP datasets, and cause persistent backdoors that are easily transferred to 15 diverse datasets zero-shot. In this way, the attacker can directly apply poisoned instructions designed for one dataset on many other datasets. Moreover, the poisoned model cannot be cured by continual learning. Lastly, instruction attacks show resistance to existing inference-time defense. These findings highlight the need for more robust defenses against data poisoning attacks in instructiontuning models and underscore the importance of ensuring data quality in instruction crowdsourcing.
